A layered Chocolate Cake never goes out of style. Trends may come and go but a Chocolate Cake is as popular today as it was 10, 20, or 75 years ago. This Simple Chocolate Cake is especially appealing both for the baker and for those who get to enjoy this cake. I find that most bakers are always on the lookout for a cake recipe that can be made really quickly yet doesn't sacrifice texture and flavor. This Simple Chocolate Cake recipe is just that. The batter can be made, and the cakes in the oven, within 15 minutes. Yet, it produces a cake with great chocolate flavor a deliciously soft and moist texture. While you could frost this cake with any flavor of frosting, my favorite is this buttery smooth chocolate fudge frosting. Because I find there is nothing better than a double dose of chocolate to make everyone feel better.

This is my "go to" Chocolate Cake. I make it for family dinners, birthdays, and everything in between. I really like the combination of two types of chocolate. Unsweetened cocoa powder is used in the chocolate cake and a dark chocolate (semi sweet or bittersweet) is used in the frosting. For the cocoa powder you can use natural unsweetened cocoa powder or Dutch-processed (alkalized). Just remember that both the type and brand of unsweetened cocoa powder will affect both the taste and color of your chocolate cake. One of the reasons for the cake's soft and tender texture is that the fat is in liquid form (flavorless oil). The added benefit of using oil, instead of butter, is that it keeps the cake soft even when refrigerated. As far as the type of oil to use, good choices are vegetable, canola, corn, safflower, or even a light olive oil.